# 🚀 graph-NN-simulator

Welcome to the **Graph Neural Network Simulator**, a project designed to explore the application of Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to simulate particle interactions and movement in 2D space. I hope that this repo can be a good resource for anyone who wishes to learn more about machine learning and graph neural networks!

---

## 🔥 Key Features

- **GNN Simulator**: Simulate particle dynamics based on graph-based networks.
- **Interaction Networks**: Implementing the **Interaction Network** architecture for simulating particle interactions.
- **Customizable Additive Model**: Easily tweak and explore parameters such as viscosity to understand the effect on particle behavior.
- **Animation Rollouts**: Visualize simulations with example **GIFs** stored in the `rollouts/` folder.
  
---

## 📖 How It Works

### 🧠 Original Model

PyTorch implementation of a graph neural network (GNN) simulator for particle dynamics, specifically designed to simulate the motion of particles in a 2D space. 
The GNN simulator is based on the Interaction Network architecture and is trained using a dataset of particle trajectories. 

The code started off as basically a copy from a **student capstone project**
[Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1hirUfPgLU35QCSQSZ7T2lZMyFMOaK_OF?usp=sharing#scrollTo=ZoB4_A6YJ7FP)
which is also described in this Medium article: **"Simulating Complex Physics with Graph Networks: Step by Step"**
[Medium article](https://medium.com/stanford-cs224w/simulating-complex-physics-with-graph-networks-step-by-step-177354cb9b05)

### 🔧 Additive Model

In addition to the original model, I have added an **Additive Model** for educational purposes. This variant is easier to manipulate, modify, and experiment with—especially useful for understanding different types of forces (e.g., viscosity).

The **Additive Model** works by combining several types of acceleration forces:

- **Gravity Acceleration**: The standard force due to gravity.
- **Swarm Acceleration**: Acceleration due to neighboring particles (similar to flocking behavior).
- **Obstacle Acceleration**: Forces from obstacles particles influencing particle motion.
- **Boundary Acceleration**: Forces from boundaries (walls).

where preset handcrafted functions were written for gravity, obstacle acceleration and acceleration due to walls as starting points
Each kind of acceleration (except gravity) takes as input the cumulative acceleration (force) of the particles so that it can react to it

---

## 🖼️ Example GIFs

Check out example animations generated by the Additive Model, after training on about half an epoch of the dataset. The animations are available in the `rollouts/` folder.

---

## 📦 Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/arsonwong/graph-NN-simulator.git
1. Download Large Files Here:
   https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1koxniHZBRjI7THg6L3oRh8E0BJ_xbf-G?usp=sharing
